Since we are doing an analysis on Madison Metro Transit,
we want to not only consider stop removals by filtering overlaps to improve travel time,
but also take the operating budget of Madison Metro Transit into consideration
in terms of the revenue and expense every year
in order to optimize fare revenue with the available resource we have.
(fare revenue is generally the money you pay for riding a bus)
Also because we want to find out routes that are not making the money,
given the expense like salaries, maintenance, and see if we can consolidate routes like this
and in the meantime not causing the inconvenience to commuters in Madison.

Here in figure 1 is the comparison of ridership between Madison and the average of Wisconsin State and the US.

As we can see, Madison has a higher volume of ridership because Madison is the second largest city in Wisconsin State.
However, ridership in Madison also fluctuates more than others because school season greatly affects the number of
boardings.


In WI overall, ridership is 6.7% lower in July than January on average;
whereas in Madison, ridership is 26.4% lower.

In the right plot of the figure 1, we can look more closely to the recent months.
We see the increasing number of boardings in Madison has a lot to do with the opening of the school.
On January 30th, 2020 was when WHO informed the world about the outbreak,
and March 11th was when quarantine started.
These two factors both contributed to the decreasing trend.
Some number of ridership in Madison reached a peak of 1,278,838 in February
but then dropped drastically to a troughs of 110,054 in April according to National Transit Database.

COVID-19 has especially affected Madison ridership;
WI and US have seen 69.56% and 69.51% declines from February through April respectively,
however, Madison has seen a 91.39% decline.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Looking at the figure 2 is the plot showing the revenue and expense over the past 10 years.

We see the two largest earnings are Local Share, and State Funds, which account for 31.32% and 31.85% respectively;
while Fare Revenue only accounts for less than a quarter, more specifically 23.85% on an average of the annual revenue over the past 10 years.

From this we want to find the correlation among between annual revenue and expense and factors like ridership (or unlinked passenger trips),
vehicle revenue miles, vehicle revenue hours, and vehicles operated in annual maximum service, to see what are the main
causes and effects that increase or decrease net income and expense of Madison Metro Transit.

State Funds:
Financial assistance obtained from a state government(s) to assist with paying the costs of providing transit services.
Local Funds:
Financial assistance from local entities that support the operation of the transit system.
